Core concepts - Minor changes (#1)
deity-io/falcon-docs: docs/introduction/core-concepts.md

title: Core Concepts
---

> Deity Falcon was built with a principle we called F.I.R.E:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DEITY Falcon was built with the F.I.R.E. principal in mind:
```

> - **Flexible** - developers should be able to build any kind of PWA they want

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Flexible** - Allow you to build any kind of website; e-commerce, blogs, portfolio's, you name it
```

> - **Integrable** - it should be possible to integrate any kind of data source with it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Integrable** - Allow you to integrate any kind of data source with it
```

> - **Reliable** - developers should not have to worry about high traffic and scalability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Reliable** - You do not have to worry about high traffic and scalability
```

> - **Extensible** - it should be able to extend it with as many custom features as the need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Extensible** - Allow you to extend your project with as many custom features as necessary
```

## Client-Server concept

The main idea that stands behind having separate applications for Client and Server parts

> is to provide developers/project owners/DevOps with a scaling abilities per your needs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is to provide developers/project owners/DevOps with scaling abilities:
```

> - You can define special server requirements for Falcon Server instance, but keeping Falcon Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can define special server requirements for a Falcon Server instance, but keeping the Falcon Client
```

server instance more "lightweight"
- You can have multiple Falcon Client instances (geo-distributed) connected to a single Falcon Server application

> - Falcon Server is stateless, so you could scale it up as you need as well (for example, you don't want to be stuck

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Falcon Server is stateless, so you could scale it up as you need (for example, you don't want to be stuck
```

with a single Falcon Server instance while supporting your mobile visitors with a dedicated application
that uses Falcon Server as data provider)

## Extension-API concept

Falcon Server itself does not provide any data, but rather acts as a glue for your data extensions.
As a result of its work - Falcon Server generates a unified [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/) Schema
that can be used by GraphQL Clients to work with the data.

### Falcon Extension

Falcon Server uses **Extension** as an abstract layer to work with a specific *entity* (for example,

> `shop-extension`, `blog-extension` etc) in order to provide "agnostic" data access and be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`shop-extension`, `blog-extension`, etc) in order to provide "agnostic" data access and be a
```

platform-independent data provider.

Falcon Extension must define abstract Queries, Mutations and types as a part of Falcon Server API, which
will be "stitched" into the unified GraphQL Schema by Falcon Server. All defined methods must be proxied
to the assigned Falcon API (defined in Falcon Server [configuration](/docs/basics/falcon-server#extensions-configuration)).

### Falcon API

Falcon Extension uses **API** as a transport layer to work with a specific back-end service (for example,
`magento-api`, `wordpress-api` etc), which has to implement all Queries and Mutations methods along with
resolved GraphQL Types (data structures) defined by Falcon Extension.

For example, `wordpress-api` is created as a transport layer for `blog-extension`, that means that `wordpress-api`
class must deliver all required Queries and Mutations defined in `blog-extension` GraphQL Schema and match
its GraphQL types (Falcon Extension does not care how this data is being fetched and pre/post-processed by
Falcon API, it's important to "meet" the schema definition). All optional methods depend on the Extension configuration.

> ## Overall Deity Falcon data flow schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Overall DEITY Falcon data flow schema
```

> ![Deity Falcon schema](assets/falcon-schema.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![DEITY Falcon schema](assets/falcon-schema.png)
```
